## A case

1. A PhD student is starting to think about their dissertation research project. 
2. They are interested in infectious disease diagnosis. They want to perform a literature review, hoping to find some inspiration.
3. They know that some authors are starting to share datasets alongside articles. Those datasets could give them ideas for narrowing down the scope of their project, and even become part of their own research. As they have no access to proprietary software, they would also like to find data encoded in open formats.  
4. As they start the review, they notice that it's not always obvious if a paper's data is available. And even when it is, it's not easy to know if that data can be reused, since reuse depends on how data is structured and what software was used by researchers.  
5. They are also struggling to identify which papers contain code, and which of the papers that do contain code are reproducible. 
6. As things are at present, to figure out all of this, they will have to spend a lot of time and put much effort into the literature review process. 
7. With OpenScore, that review becomes a more simplified process. 
8. While searching for literature, the student will see an OpenScore, ranging from zero to one. If a paper has a score of one, it means that is it truly open (i.e. it was created following every recommended open science practise). 
9. By hovering the mouse over the general score, the student can see details the contributed to the OpenScore regarding code availability, data openness, writing quality writing structure, and open tool usage.  
10. These scores are trustable, because they were generated by the general public.
11. With OpenScore, readers can easily decide which papers are most useful, which contain reusable datasets, and which contain reproducible code. 
